Adds a skill to migrate a command to zod (#7407)
pnp/cli-microsoft365: .github/skills/zod-migration/SKILL.md

---
name: zod-migration
description: 'Migrate CLI for Microsoft 365 commands from legacy initOptions/initValidators/initTelemetry pattern to Zod schema validation. Use when asked to "migrate to zod", "upgrade command to zod", "convert command validation to zod", or when working on commands that still use the old pattern.'
---

# Zod Migration

Migrate a CLI for Microsoft 365 command from the legacy `#initOptions()`/`#initValidators()`/`#initTelemetry()` pattern to Zod schema-based validation.

## When to Use

- Command still has `#initOptions()`, `#initValidators()`, or `#initTelemetry()` methods
- Command does not have a `schema` getter or exported `options` Zod schema

## Pre-flight

1. Read the command source file (`.ts`) and its test file (`.spec.ts`)
2. Identify: options, aliases, validators, telemetry, option sets, types
3. Check if the command has `autocomplete` values on any options

> 4. Check if the command uses `@meid`/`@meusername` tokens in any GUID/UPN fields

Reviewer: Will LLM understand from this sentence to look through the command’s identity-related options and validations, and determine whether any field that normally expects a GUID or a UPN also allows tokens `@meid` or `@meusername`?

```suggestion
4. Check whether any command option representing a GUID or UPN accepts the runtime tokens `@meid` or `@meusername`
```

Author: One way to find out 😅

// New:
await command.action(logger, { options: commandOptionsSchema.parse({ id: 'abc', verbose: true }) });
```

**CRITICAL:** Use `.parse()` (throws) for action tests, `.safeParse()` for validation tests.

**Exception for `@meid`/`@meusername` tokens:** Tests that use runtime tokens like `@meid` or `@meusername` (which are replaced by `loadValuesFromAccessToken` before schema validation) must keep `as any` since these values intentionally bypass Zod:

```typescript
// @meid is a runtime token - cannot go through parse
await command.action(logger, { options: { id: '@meid' } as any });
```

#### 7e. Remove legacy "supports specifying" tests

Delete tests like:
```typescript
// DELETE these — schema handles option registration
it('supports specifying id', () => {
  const options = command.options;
  let containsOption = false;
  options.forEach(o => { ... });
  assert(containsOption);
});
```

#### 7f. Add required validation tests

**ALWAYS add these tests:**

```typescript
it('fails validation with unknown options', () => {
  const actual = commandOptionsSchema.safeParse({
    id: 'valid-id',
    unknownOption: 'value'
  });
  assert.strictEqual(actual.success, false);
});

> ```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**ALWAYS add these tests:**

For commands that reject unknown options:
```typescript
it('fails validation with unknown options', () => {
  const actual = commandOptionsSchema.safeParse({
    id: 'valid-id',
    unknownOption: 'value'
  });
  assert.strictEqual(actual.success, false);
});
```
```

> 

Reviewer: Missing triple backticks
